# Text Generation to auto complete sentences using keras
I used SciFi Stories dataset(https://www.kaggle.com/jannesklaas/scifi-stories-text-corpus) to create and train two types of models. The training is done entirely using keras. The two models are word-based text generator and character-based text generator

## Word Based Text Generator
First step would be pre-processing and cleaning the raw data. I also didn't remove stop words as removing them would generate nonsensical sentences. After which I divide the dataset as a string to a list of sentences. Since I want to auto complete sentences, the scope of each sequence would be the sentence itself. I then generated the sequences by splitting each sentence and using that as the training data to predict the word immediately after the sequence. For example for a sentence with 10 words and split of 1/3, the first sequence would be the first 3 words as a means of predicting the 4th word, for the next sequence, it would just shift the order by one word. Initially after creating all the sequences, one-hot encoding the labels blew up my memory, so for training I divided it into batches which orderly create the labels, and train on that. Finally once it's trained I used a sample sentence to generate words till it generated a period.

## Character Based Text Generator
The first few steps is similar to that of word based model until generating sequences. For generating sequences, it takes each sentence and splits into characters and does a split based on the split value. Though the vocavulary size compared to word based model is quite low(~36), the number of sequences was almost 20 times that of word based model. After training the model, the generation is similar to word based model, but generates characters instead of words as a whole.
